# Agenda

-   Discuss [proposed updates](https://github.com/WICG/first-party-sets/issues/92) to First-Party Sets
    -   Using Storage Access API instead of SameParty cookie attribute
    -   Defining sets via "subsets"
-   Key open questions (to cover as time permits)
    -   **Subsets** - What are the right subsets to choose initially? Are there use cases that don't work with subsets anymore? ([GitHub issue #96](https://github.com/WICG/first-party-sets/issues/96))
    -   **Associated** - What challenges might developers encounter from a limit of 3 associated domains? ([GitHub issue #93](https://github.com/WICG/first-party-sets/issues/93))
    -   **CHIPS** - How does CHIPS interact with (and benefit from) FPS and SAA? ([GitHub issue #94](https://github.com/WICG/first-party-sets/issues/94))
    -   **rSAForSite** - Can we solve existing use cases for FPS with embedded rSA? If not, does the rSAForSite proposal help? ([GitHub issue #97](https://github.com/WICG/first-party-sets/issues/97))
    -   **Fraud** - What additional technical checks should we consider to combat abuse? ([GitHub issue #95](https://github.com/WICG/first-party-sets/issues/95))

Chair: Panos Astithas\
Scribe volunteer: Helen Cho, Heather Flanagan

# Attendees — please sign yourself in!

(Please sign in at the start of the meeting)

1.  Kaustubha Govind (Google Chrome, FPS co-editor)
1.  Panos Astithas (Google Chrome, Web Standards)
1.  Johann Hofmann (Google Chrome, FPS co-editor)
1.  Don Marti (CafeMedia)
1.  Brian May (dstillery)
1.  Heather Flanagan (Spherical Cow Consulting)
1.  James Rosewell (51Degrees)
1.  Helen Cho (Chrome)
1.  David Dabbs (Epsilon)
1.  Robert Blanck (Axel Springer)
1.  Chris Needham (BBC)
1.  Sam Goto (Google Chrome)
1.  Jeremy Ney (Google Chrome)
1.  Russell Stringham (Adobe)
1.  Jordan Manwaring (Gannett Co., Inc.)
1.   Kris Chapman (Salesforce)
1.  Jason Nutter (Microsoft)
1.  Shuran Huang (Google Chrome)
1.  Sam LeDoux (Google Chrome)
1.  Yi Gu (Google Chrome)
1.  Christian Biesinger (Google)
1.  Steven Valdewz (Google Chrome)
1.  Harneet SIdhana (Microsoft Edge, FPS-co-editor)
1.  Mike O'Neill (Baycloud Systems)
1.  Kirubel Aklilu (Google Chrome)
1.  Nicolas Pena Moreno (Google)
1.  Dongoh Park (Google)
1.  Tim Cappalli (Microsoft Identity)
1.  Matt Reichhoff (Google Chrome)
1.  Brian Lefler (Google Chrome)
1.  Jeff Burkett (Gannett)
1.  Brad Griffith (Automattic)

# Notes

[Slide Deck](./FPS _ SAA_Updates.pdf)

Kaustubha G: Excited to talk about changes to FPS. First time having WICG FPS call. Will talk about logistics and next steps at end of call. Agenda: 55 min - Background, summary of feedback + motivations for changes, will pause for Q&A after 20 min (won't take questions before pause), primary goal for meeting is to make sure everyone is on the same page of what we're proposing. Once we've gone through that, FPS co-editors team has specific questions for feedback. If time permits, will cover the open questions. Alternatively, can cover questions on GitHub or future calls.

Kaustubha G: Background to why we're proposing changes: spent quite a bit of time incubating FPS in Privacy CG looking for feedback + discussion of viability. Brower implementers (Apple, Mozilla) raised various concerns. Core of these concerns were the Same Party cookies (in a post 3pc world, as long as web developers annotated cookies with Same Party cookie attribute and those cookies are part of the same FPS → allowed "passive" access). Recommendations being made by other browsers is to use the Storage Access API (developers specifically ask for cookie access. Browsers use heuristics or lists to determine access). Browsers preferred active vs passive approach. Members of community raised concerns about criteria, like numeric limit and corporate ownership. Other browser teams (Edge, Chrome) and developers also voiced support for proposal to address breaking changes post 3pcd. Supporters have encouraged pursuing browser interoperability. Goal of changes is to make incremental progress towards addressing feedback.

Kaustubha G: Primary goal: continued focus on addressing user-facing breakage. Want to index on user expectations and experience rather than corporate structure. In the previous proposal we had a list of use cases (country code domains like .co.uk - businesses do this to provide localized experience, sometimes developers separate out content on different domains for security purposes). This proposal tries to better understand such use cases. Allow browsers to mediate access. Think this modification allows for interoperability even for browsers that don't support FPS (using SAA, because other browsers may use SAA. User experience may still be different, but developer experience is preserved).

Johann H: Thanks, Kaustubha. Brief overview of proposal and then will dive into details. Conscious of time so will have pause for Q&A afterwards. Three main parts to the proposal: proposing to abandon the Same Party attribute. Enabled developers to very easily switch implementation to FPS in a post 3pc world, but have to accept that it stands in the way of browser interoperability. Instead, will adopt SAA and improve it to better fit FPS. Introduce subsets - help us better understand / categorize / force policy on use cases + domains in FPS.

Johann H: Looking at Same Party vs. SAA. Same Party is very easy - use cookie attribute + in same FPS = site can use its cookies. Not supported by other browsers, didn't see a way forward with interoperability. Want to consider long-term developer convenience of interoperability. Looked at rSA, which is a similar mechanism in that embedded sites on different top-levels can request access to its cookies. SAA is implemented in other browsers, but a little more complicated. Need an iframe that gets a user interaction (like a button). Calls an async API, browser runs heuristics, or shows prompts. If that's successful, cookies can be sent. Use case is not contained to the single iframe. Will need to communicate with the embedding page (e.g., if there are other resources that belong to that site, need to reload). Works for some use cases (like authenticated embeds, commenting widget). A bit awkward for some use cases that FPS aims to solve (scripts, image tags). Proposing extension of rSAForSite. Similar, but in this case the 1p can call the API. 1p can call rSA on behalf of 3p site. Much easier / better for developers. Some of these things still need to be figured out with other browsers. Some considerations: provide easier flow for developers (previously suggested by other developers as an improvement to SAA - like Forward Declaration), [#53](https://github.com/privacycg/storage-access/issues/53) and [#83](https://github.com/privacycg/storage-access/issues/83) in SAA GH, prior art in Safari and Firefox who use internal quirks and shims to internally fix sites broken by 3pc deprecation, but not available for external use. Why aren't they exposing to other sites? Additional security considerations. We are considering these on rSAForSite explainer - gist is that there needs to be a strong browser trust mechanism (like FPS).

Johann H: Subsets. Really defines how FPS definition works. Instead of one big list of member domains with equal rights and rules, we now split these domains up and divide by use cases. More on the developer side. Examples: ccTLD (example.co.uk, example.de), common eTLD, service domains that serve some utility that users may not directly interact with like sandbox domains, associated subset - users can interact with these in top-level context. These domains must have a clear presentation of association to users. These subsets are an initial proposal.  How do we enforce this? Extra transparency helps for advanced users. In the past, we relied on common ownership. Preserve this for at least 3 of the subsets, not the main gating mechanism, but a supplemental requirement to mitigate abuse.

Johann H: What helps us mitigate abuse is the technical checks that we can apply on the different subsets. Additional transparency on enforcement. Advanced user: looking at service subset, relatively easy to tell whether the domain in a service subset is a service domain (is there 1p relationship with the user). Technical checks for eTLD or ccTLD - name checks, no limit. Service subsets - no limit, auto-granted access, but technical checks under consideration e.g., could not have ability top-level in a storage access request. Limits how a user might enter that site, establishing a relationship with any other site would be impossible. Robots.txt so that site can't be crawled. Looking for feedback on this and other checks. We received feedback that "common ownership" is not easily understood by users. Associated subset accounts for this. "Common branding" is difficult to enforce objectively, doesn't make sense to apply to all domains. Only applies to "associated." Proposing "clear presentation" - enforcing at scale is still difficult, but we can limit the number of sites that can be in this subset. Right now, limit is 3. Limit is important, but allows us to have a definition that is broader, one that is subjective. Limits ability of attackers (who can't gain much with numeric limit of 3). Helps with user understanding - 3 is easier to track than a large number.

Johann H: How would developers integrate? Developers would need to submit list to public tracker. Set manifest, declare subsets. Must pass technical checks, plus subset specific ones. Make public assertion about conformance to requirements. Cannot just use SameParty attribute anymore. Need to call rSA (if there is iframe) or rSAForSite.

Q&A\
Panos: switch scribes

Robert: do i understand right, that in this proposal there is no option for normal common ownership with no technical reason? Is that associated subset? do I understand that this association is more a business association? I want to make a point on that - from a publisher, EU perspective, it's a real governance discussion. It's interesting to see this governance discussion is going on in a tech forum. What company is presented to the user is a legal/owner/governance question. Each company is responsible for what they do with their customers. GDPR is based on the controllership question, so it's interesting to see browsers intervening into that. it is a legal base, and this should be discussed in a different forum on governance. In a media world with 10-20 publications, it was clear they would use the same data. This discussion wants to intervene in that. It should be clear that you're going into a well-established idea for ownership.

Helen: thanks, I work on Chrome with Kaustubha. The associated domains in the subset, there isn't a common ownership requirement, which is a pivot from the previous proposal. I am not a lawyer, but want to clarify that the way we're proposing FPS is as a purely technical mechanism. Hope that companies are responsible for their own compliance. Companies and site have ability to access and share data per their legal guidance; FPS would be a way to enable that.

Robert: then associated subset is not for common ownership. It's not about having two separate topics with same ownership. I don't see how that fits under FPS. Requiring common ownership is clear.

Helen: if you're suggesting that another subset would be appropriate, that's great feedback.

Jason: two questions - first, aside from the addition of the new API and enhancement to autogrant for the previous FPS, are there any other changes that you'd like to see with the existing storage access API spec?

JH: Yes, but we don't want to elaborate much here. We're looking at it and will collaborate with you on that. There are some detailed policy changes we've discussed.

Jason: For the forward declaration, see that's not intended to replace it, but if FPS is available for a site and the declared model isn't needed, seems like a more complicated model than necessary. You could maybe say that request storage access for two domains in the same party, then forward declaration for two parties not in the same FPS?

JH: this is about the relationship with forward declaration. That's what we're trying to find out. We haven't committed to forward declare; we're still looking into it. It would be useful to see what suits the developers better. What mechanism helps them. Forward declare may not be enough, but that may be a misconception on our part. Would like to see/hear evidence one way or the other.

Jason: From Microsoft's side, the two things key about both of these is 1) the ability to prompt for storage access while the embedded frame is in the top, and the 2) the bidirectional nature of storage access. We have scenarios where we have a embedding b, and b embedding a. This might help us achieve that.

JH: they'd still have to call the API twice. This is what we're targeting for - more flexibility. Forward declare seems to be designed for an OAuth flow, but it might not be flexible enough.

Don: can we better understand the threat model that's underlying the numeric limit on number of members within an associated subset? Am thinking about the various harms that can be done with a bogus set and all the best scams I can think of can be done with 3. Trying to figure out where a small but understandable set is lower risk than an equally understandable set with one more member.

JH: briefly answer that. I would be very interested in that, getting your ideas on attacks specifically involving 4, or 5. This has been talked about in the PrivacyCG as well that there could be small sets. There could be problems with that with ccTLDs, etc, and we have solved that. You're right that there isn't a clearly defined privacy model that points at 3 as the perfect number. A small number helps ensure contextual integrity is kept for the user. Could lost that between two sites, but it doesn't give the attacker much. It encourages sites to solve their flows without leaving room for the attacker; that's why we like three. Would like to see use cases that preserve context so that we could up the limit, or see attacks based on a very small number, all with the assumption that we cannot resolve this through other enforcement mechanisms.

JH: other browsers (firefox) has an implicit 5 grant. So there is some prior art.

Helen: agree with JH. Also want to call out, we have a subset and its definition. Its counterpart is the browser's handling policy which is where the numeric limit comes in. We want to see these as working together; it's the totality of the two mechanisms that provide its strength. The domains in the subsets should match the criteria, so even someone from civil society checking for clear user presentation is more doable than if there are hundreds of domains. It's not a perfect solution, but without the ability to define what clear user presentation is, this is the first step in making that possible.

Brian: In general, I find FPS concerning in that it makes it more difficult for users to understand who they have agreements with. Putting aside everything we're trying to do, we're institutionalizing clumping together domains that have nothing to do with each other from the users' perspective. That makes it easier to take advantage of the user. That's a more general topic. Also have a question about the degree to which domains in a subset overlap with domains in another subset?

JH: No, and there's no need to.

Brian: so a domain that's part of a UK country code subset can't have any service domains associated with it?

JH: the ccTLD are declared as aliases of the other domains, so internally in the browser they'd be substituted. The service domains could be used in the same manner.

Brian: So, the relationship may be with an alias but all the service domains will be interacted through with a.com?

JH: example.a.ca are allowed to interact with the same associated service domains as example.a.com. There's nothing routed through example.a.com on a technical level. There's no difference between how the grant works.

Brian: It seems like there are opportunities for users to have agreements with a domain, and then the set of domains they have the agreement with can change after they make that agreement.

JH: if the domains change in the set, then everything is cleared.

Brian: even in an additive case?

JH: Please file an issue on the attack you're thinking of. Definitely interested.

Kris: for Salesforce, using the storage access API means FPS won't be a viable answer for us. Storage access has a lot of problems (e.g., iFrames, requiring JS interaction which means getting clients do more to add scripts or dealing with environments that don't support JS like email). The idea that a service domain wouldn't be surfed to and accessed, that wouldn't be correct for us because while the service is done on one path, when users try to go to that domain, they're trying to log into the admin interface for that service.

JH: interesting point.

Kaustubha: you're calling out ergonomic issues with storage access api and we want to talk more about this to understand how we can improve the API.

James: agree with Kris on the JS issue. Also, great call from Robert about GDPR. Google are bound the [commitments they made to the CMA](https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/media/62052c6a8fa8f510a204374a/100222_Appendix_1A_Google_s_final_commitments.pdf) which uses GDPR as the definition of privacy. The proposal should use "joint controller", "controller", etc as the privacy language and not "owner". The issue Robert described would be a large publisher who wants to perform lawful data sharing but the solution might prevent them from doing that. Or conversely a smaller publisher who wants to compete with a large publisher using B2B suppliers, like Salesforce and others. This needs to progress in a policy as well as a technical forum. Also, "first party" and "third party" are not terms that exist in GDPR (see [ICO and CMA joint statement](https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file/987358/Joint_CMA_ICO_Public_statement_-_final_V2_180521.pdf)). To expand on the associated sets issue, GDPR doesn't place any limits (particular numbers). Has Google considered relying on standardized privacy policies as a way of handling that?

Kaustubha: thanks for the +1 on the JS. Helen answered the question re: GDPR. The issue of compliance for us is orthogonal to the technical issues.

James: How does requiring multiple logins improve privacy?

Panos: don't have time to get into that discussion.

David: people have used the term ‘forward declaration' - trying to understand what concept is being discussed.

JH: See [https://github.com/privacycg/storage-access/pull/100](https://github.com/privacycg/storage-access/pull/100)

Panos: Kaustubha, please discuss next call details.

Kaustubha: Glad we made it through the overview. Please keep opening issues, and add items to the agenda item in GitHub. Will this same day/time work for this call, should it be biweekly/monthly?

**GVC chat history:**

Kaustubha Govind\
12:02 PM\
Please sign-on on[ https://goo.gle/fps-meeting-notes](https://goo.gle/fps-meeting-notes)\
Panos Astithas\
12:10 PM\
A reminder for folks who joined later to please sign-on on[ https://goo.gle/fps-meeting-notes](https://goo.gle/fps-meeting-notes)\
David Dabbs\
12:13 PM\
Link to slides available?\
Kaustubha Govind\
12:14 PM\
Hi David, sorry, we don't have a public link available; but we're try and clean up and share after the call if that's ok?\
public version of slides*\
David Dabbs\
12:14 PM\
Yes, of course. Just want to avoid having to capture and save screen images.\
Panos Astithas\
12:23 PM\
Last reminder for folks who joined later to please sign-on on[ https://goo.gle/fps-meeting-notes](https://goo.gle/fps-meeting-notes)\
Robert Blanck\
12:24 PM\
do i understand right, that in this proposal there is no option for normal common ownership with no technical reason? Is that associated subset?\
Heather Flanagan\
12:28 PM\
Let me know when to take over for Helen\
Panos Astithas\
12:29 PM\
Let's switch scribes after the presentation is over and we move to Q&A if that's alright with both of you\
Heather Flanagan\
12:29 PM\
wfm!\
Panos Astithas\
12:31 PM\
thanks!\
Kaustubha Govind\
12:40 PM\
I believe the fwd declaration solution might also require a redirect through b.example?\
Jason Nutter\
12:41 PM\
@kaustubha Correct.\
Jason Nutter\
12:43 PM\
Which is fine for our scenario, but requestStorageAccessForSite in this context because it only requires one origin to make the requestStorageAccess call, instead of both.\
is similar in this context***\
simpler, not similar ha\
Kaustubha Govind\
12:45 PM\
cool yeah. +1 to that. We think requestStorageAccessForSite will also help for other usecases that don't have the redirect pattern\
David Dabbs\
12:52 PM\
Yes, source of friction.\
Robert Blanck\
12:56 PM\
ownership proof can be done by trustees like its done on extended SSL certs. Thats a scalable used process already\
Kaustubha Govind\
12:57 PM\
David:[ https://github.com/privacycg/storage-access/pull/100](https://github.com/privacycg/storage-access/pull/100)\
this is the forward declaration mechanism that is being proposed for Storage Access API\
James Rosewell\
12:58 PM\
Robert - you should review GDPR Validated Sets which explains how that would work.[ https://github.com/WICG/first-party-sets/pull/86](https://github.com/WICG/first-party-sets/pull/86)\
Brian May\
12:59 PM\
Can we do a doodle poll for timing of the meeting?\
David Dabbs\
1:00 PM\
+1 for Doodle, &c. poll.\
Tim Cappalli\
1:00 PM\
Biweekly over monthly over weekly\
Brian May\
1:00 PM\
TY
